|> Apps to buy / wwawtch
	->> anything from https://objective-see.com/products.html	
	-> https://www.binaryage.com/
	
--------	

[ ] Add this to dev notes: GitHub - tonsky/FiraCode: Monospaced font with programming ligatures



tau:
	10.1.6.62
	username jenkins
	password d3Grouppa$$

https://d3engineering.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PPF/pages/451477505/Automated+Test+Stations
https://d3engineering.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/PPF/pages/509018114/Automated+Tests

|>Cloud stuff discussed with Scott
	- Using cloud more for day to day business where it make sense
	- saas ai testsing on tda. (our hardware)
	- Edge - pushing live data in the cloud (from tda, radar sensors tracking people...) RIT, Hook up TI Data Acquisition (ROSSBAG - all robotic data)
	- ai at the edge (sage maker) Amazon  Need some idea/brainstorming
	Quick and "Dirty" Demo....

ESTIMATIONS
	PDAF++
	  Questions:
		Should we share the position information with Ability for CDAF
		Making is simpler to give to CDAF
		Might not be a perfect abstraction to them.
		Backward compatible API won't be perfect.
	  D3 Mostly done but require some testing
		1 Weeks to finish integration
		1 Week of support time 
	  Zeiss
		Few weeks

	DIAGNOSTIC TOOLS
	  Camera Library (Debugging improvments)
		Fast capture diagnostic tools  (2-3 Weeks)
		  Test socket (to dump data on the go, would move cpt logic into the daemon, reducing complexity of having to manage 2 instances) 
		  Some memory corruption when closing camera library
		  We are not returning the error code to the socket.

		Log analysing (1 week)
		  Something to pipe a logcat into and produce a list of error (grep with a list of keyword).
		  Imager register dump parser (we have that with CTP.  Need to document in confluence on how to use)
			We need to fix some of it.  Revisit it

		Lens (Need chuck's input)

	DEBUGGING XMC/FOCUS - STABILITY
	  This needs more thinking

	FULL RES DNG DISPLAY
	  It might be possible to use the android reprocessing api (probably a bad idea and a lot of work)
	  We should talk with Thomas (Brainstorm)
		Pat to schedule

	AUTOMATION
	  pat to estimate. (2 months)
	
Emily
  Only person on the team that write test cases
  Test rail and Jira
  She meets with the analyst to ask question then she tell them what she is going to test, and what she isn't going to test.
  
  she does ensure error case analysis.  make a matrix of things that needs to be done.  traceability matrix
  
  Important to reduce testing time.  Hate wasting time.  Accountability and accuracy.
  SME for scanning.
  
  she would be perfect to do service.  Go getter to figure out stuff
  MTBF experience
  
  she is a thinkering
  
  so she did python long time ago, sure she could figured it out.  purefy rational, integration team, she did code analysis to find memory leaks.
  
  she figured out pcl issues related to a color printer.  
  
Meeting on features March 26th
	Overall
		Requirements are still not 100% Mature
		Plan to put in camera in automn or maybe next winter.
	
	--------
	1 |> DSLR MODE - Live View only in EVF (Neuland, D3, BayLibre)
		to help user shoot under direct sunlight due to reflection
		some users coming from dslr background also prefer that
		would also help with power saving

		PL: WE WILL NEED AN EXTRA TEST IN POWER MODE TO MEASURE POWER WITH EVF ON ALL THE TIME

		Power saving is not the main driver here.

		TL: We need to think about the user friendliness.  Can't swipe on the left as it is lock while in EVF mode.
			We need a good idea from design affairs.
			We should do a workshop between design affair, Zeiss and Neuland

		3 options:
			Leave the sensor running (quicker but more power hungry)
			Turning off the camera when not looking through the EVF.  Save tons of power but huge delay to power on.
			Half power saving mode (certain components off, some on).  That would need D3 and Intrinsyc help

			This 3rd options should be a different task.  Maybe wake up the camera using the gyro or something.

		2 tasks:
			Define power saving mode (D3's research).  How to resume quicker, using the gyro to wake up?
			Define the UI so it is understandable

		Dimitri wrote something 2 years ago about eco mode.

	--------
	2 |> B&W options, LUTs from lightroom (Neuland, Adobe, Lantronix, D3)
		Shoot in B&W is only once cases
		Later users could have their own presets, should be visible in preview.
		DNG would stay as is, only Jpeg would be grayscale
		would have to aply the lut when tiling and creating the JPEG
		
		we need a way to get custom profile out of lightroom
		  adobe will have to play with us
		  implementation shouldn't depend on adobe's timeline.
		  
		What parameter we want dynamics and ask Lantronix how much time and effort it will take.
		
		cameralib interface at D3 to load luts
		
	--------	
	3 |> Digital Zoom (Lantronix, D3, Thomas, Ability)
		To take advantage of the 37MegaPixels that we have.
		Fake 50/70 mm field of view (croping mode)
		Avoid having to go through lightroom for further processing.  Makes sharing quicker.
		DNG would stay the same.
		The idea is to have Thomas do the croping.
			Will get slower.
			Thomas would preffer the cpp to do that crop
			
		OK with loosing quality in liveview.  (Dimitri wants to avoid changing the image pipeline).
		Zoom on center, no UI to move crop region around.
		
		Don't use the mag mode at all (Dimitri, spend zero time on that).
		
		Make the grid dynamic (how will this affect PDAF, same way it affects CDAF)
			- Leave the grid as they are (no affect on focus)
			- try to do statistic grid dynamically (reduction of data in every grid, we would need to implement that)
				would reduce spotlight autofocus issue.
				
			TODO : 	Need to ask Lantronix how much work this would be, and is it necessary
					ZEISS to ask themselves if this is a must have vs a nice to have.  Estimate that it will double/triple effort.
				
	--------
	4 |> Various noise cleaning levels (D3, ZEISS, Neuland)
		Competition have noise reduction level available.  
			Results doesn't seem to be understable from user point of view.
			User don't usually understand how noise work and they end up not using that at all.
			
		Applying noise reduction on long exposure would take long time to process
		When doing fireworks, you wouldn't want to use this feature to avoid waiting in between shoots.
		
		PR: We already apply an impulse filter before saving dng.  should that have to change
		
		EASIER PATH: We just change the DNG tag and light room take care of applying noise cleaning
		
		We could also apply it to the DNG and attach the settings to it. We have to block for it.
		
		D3> We need direction on what path to take.  We would need to add a new parameter as live view is running so it works with fast capture.
		

-------------------------------------

Symbioide
	Monday 6th 1/2 hour call with guillaume
	Monday 6th 1 hour stubbing rest_fun
	Tuesday 7th 1 hour coding some rest example
	Wednesday 2 hours trying to understand how their code works
	Saturday 4 hours coding logic to authenticate using mvvm cross, created real symbioide project.  Ported my old project logic over to handle webservices (abstraction).
	Sunday 4 hours coding logic of the retrieving and displaying classes.  Had to mes around with handling cookie which was a pain in the butt to figure out.
	Monday 6 hours coding logic to support class selection in a listview.  It now shows navigation from class to courses (course list is still not visible yet).  Spent 2 of that time playing around their website, creating a student user which represents better the workflow.  covade user had access to other unrelated course because it is an admin user.
	
Radar/GM
	time of flight
	infra red
	pointcloud
	heatmap
	pixel
	lidar is light

	radar is hard to characterize  works well in far stuff .  on a clutter environment what does it sees.
	succeptible to vibration
	static radar is moving around when driving down a potholed riddle road.

	in research:
		analysis and trade
		quirks of perception for radar or camera (camera is lighting, can produce only white pixel) but what is it for radar.
		How do you make the thing fail.


	What has been done so far.  And what is our path forward.
   

Monday June 22th 2020 status call with Zeiss:
	- 6142:
		Should we spend more effort into this ?
		Do we have more ideas on what to look into ?
		We suggest Postponing this issue past 1.3
		
		
	- XMC position reporting accuracy brainstorming session: 
		Will reach out to Jim McGarvey for availability on when he could be available for a call
		with Ralf and Dimitry, early call.
		
	- OTA :
		1.2.2 and 1.2.3: To 1.3.0
		We need to spend sometimes testing
		
	- Group 2 meeting with Ralf:
		Scheduled for Tuesday June 23rd at 9AM EST
		
		
	- List of licenses used by the system
		Pat to provide this to Armijn by end of day Monday June 22th 2020 EST.
	

    	
SCRUM TODAY:
	STATUS OF LENS THAT DOESN'T FOCUS VERTICALLY??? WHAT DO WE TELL ABILITY?
		Need more time from Chuck
	
	CHECK ON EXPENSE REQUEST NATE IS SUPPOSED TO SEND

	SEND AN EMAIL TO ZEISS ABOUT THAT (Ask Axel first)
	DISCUSS AXEL IDEA OF REMOVING THE IPAD WORK AROUND AND OFFER A UI
	MAYBE HAVE A GUI TO OFFER USERS TO SELECT ROLES
		
	
Smartboot

	Lantronix would have to fuse and retest every som
	already do something for the wifi address change 
		maybe we could fuse at that point.
		
	We need a meeting between Gerry, Dimitri and Hans-Juergen
	ability  to send 10 soms to D3 for more testing.
	
	
	
	TO TEST
	UNFUSED SOM WITH ZEISS SIGNED BINARIES
	and FUSED SOME WITH ZEISS SIGNED BINARIES
	
	
	Preboot loader
	2 xbl (preboot loader rom and sbl/xlb)
	
	xbl has some special access to be able to read the partition and allow the chain of trust from the preboot loader through the lk and through android
	  trust zone (built in arm)
	  key: anchor certificate (one time programable)
	  All images are verified against that certificate and the chip code.
	  
	Starting out in trust zone at the preboot loader rom and if it works it will boot or else you get into a spin boot loop
	
	when android tries to start if the signature doesn't match then it will fail to boot.
	
	Protection from running images.
	
	What can we update via OTA.
	
	Signed XBL LK and ADRUINO libs.
	
	Jeffrey signs with a default key. Logic in pbl or xbl if this doesn't match default, activate chip code fuse and authenticate
	
	LK can talk to the emmc via rpmb (secure) 
	
	Default key is wide open.
	
	
Ask REECE for a plan/strategy on Bist with estimates


You have an upcoming Telemedicine appointment with Sleep Insights at 10:00 am tomorrow, Wednesday, June 24th.  Please click on the following link 5 minutes prior to your scheduled appointment.  Be sure to allow any pop ups that appear on your screen. https://sleepinsights.doxy.me/2




TODO:
Have a look at how to ensure we don't get spi interrupts while handling a spi message.

Qualcomm:
	Driver monitoring system
	Camera monitoring system
	Doing it all in the cloud (image analysis)
	
	
	
Thomas:
	Fast capture in fast afs is working and do feel faster
	
	getting more red focuses then used to (more than should get)
		contrast scan, contrast scan mainly end up red
		
	2 fast full presses, you get out only one picture
	
	Can hear the motor humming in the lens GP-6551
	
	GP-6142 Ability is finding more camera
	
	
	
What can cause the camera to reboot in a loop
	- Mismatched firware versions
	- Missing calibration files
	- In some cases, if the camera library crash, it would cause a reboot
	
	
Meeting notes july 21st
	6566 - retry on tau
	6531 - run another camera
		 - do a file check
		 
		 
		5       ls /storage/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932/0/
6       ls /storage/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932/0/DCIM
7       mount
8       umount /mnt/expand/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932/
9       umount /mnt/expand/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932/media
10      mount
11      umount /mnt/runtime/default/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932
12      umount /storage/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932
13      mount
14      umount /mnt/runtime/read/808b9626-939f-48f4-9f40-8077d134d932
15      mount
16      umount /dev/block/dm-1
17      mount
18      e2fsck  /dev/block/dm-1
19      e2fsck -c -f  /dev/block/dm-1
20      e2fsck -c -f -v /dev/block/dm-1

different timing test on power booot





tauri react
snowpack

computing division
  hw
  chrome
  search hiring
  cloud hiring
  
  swe
  >7years exp
  
  pitts
  
  c++
  cs fundamentals
  languages fundamentals
  
  completion and efficiency
  
  
  final interview (1 day)
    4 technical
	
  final
    team matching
	
  6-8 weeks
  
how to fix in the field... provide options for recovery in the field;

home_til_good() {
	# Move the lens to MOD
	adb shell "camera-phoenix-test drive-lens 4 &> /dev/null"
	sleep(2) # Sleep 2 seconds
	modPos=read register 108

	# Move the lens to Infinity
	adb shell "camera-phoenix-test drive-lens 0 &> /dev/null"
	sleep(2) # Sleep 2 seconds
	infinityPos=read register 108

	# Compute the number of mm
	range=((modPos/(2*math.pi)) - (infinityPos/(2*math.pi)))
	# range > 15.4 should be good.
	if range > 15.4 then break
	
	python lens.py home -d
}







docker run -d --name devpi \
	-e TZ=America/Montreal \
    --publish 3141:3141 \
    --volume /usr/local/srv/docker/devpi:/data \
    --env=DEVPI_PASSWORD=blablabla \
    --restart always \
    muccg/devpi
	
	
1591025312 - 1.2.3 release
1592794322 - 1.2.2 release


GP-6558 need to talk with Kevin about that to see when he can get 
GP-6576 - not actually a bug.  our firmware can run for between 30-40 hours.  low memory killers.  it's good news

Running a mtbf with wifi yeild the same results, only one crash over 30-40 hours.

6142 bug with boot failure.  we need to give feedback to ability.  lots of camera are having this issue.

Ralf power measurement request for 1.3.  Pat to do today.


dng thumbnail preview dimitri would like axel to work on that.

Reece discuss about having Axel do the thermal manager changes.

Next topics:
  - No big features for 1.4
  - Finalize current topics:
  - usb testing
  - zeiss firmware server
  - improvement features: reduction in boot up time or resume from ram time (still need to decide)


discuss a log parser for troubleshooting issues in service




Paul to port socket change in production





Power automation box:
   12V supply
   7V downsampler
   5V downsampler
   1 12V bar
   1 Pi 3 or 4 with heatsink
   1 ykush
   1 iec connector
   
   
   build 1 pedestal 
   







modules
	version
	power
	connectivity
	app
	


chuck still looking at what could cause the issue
	small fpc add additional friction
	find a detection method
	

what will be achieved by the end of the week part of the minutes from today
having a build at then of our wednesday

cut out date tomorrow lunch for new fixes

send a note at end of day tomorrow about which version is the right one

Have qa do a image transfer suite to test ptp change
look at the dmesg when plug over usb3




1.05.30 = 36



August 27th 2020 meeting with Zeiss
Image path:
	Face detection
		Infrastructure is all setup (ITC and D3)
		Waiting for Dimitri and Malta to implement algorithm
		Not sure what else needs to be done (at D3)
		Zeiss: Algorithm is done.  Testing
		Missing: Path to the app and back (for setting the rectangle)
		
		D3 provide rect to zeiss
		Zeiss identify whitch one is the good one
		Provide rectangle sets to the app
		App draws rects on the UI
		UI Sees where we are focusing
		App pushes back wich rectangle user selected
	
		How to pass the data should be defined.
		Not sure it is implemented
		
		Tuning:
		Once that is all integrated, Zeiss will be able to tune their algorithm
		Might also need to adjust the face detector in the qualcomm
	
	
	
	Reduce capture time for dark frame (Dr David) (Zeiss investigation)
		Looking into re-activitating scaling dark substraction
		Not yet confident they can do that easily
		Still looking into it
		Idea: Being able to user selection dark frame selection best quality, and scale dark substraction.
		
		If this moves forward, D3 will have to implement the switch
		
		Another task (for noise cleaning):
			to make it not only dependant on ISO but also exposure time and temperature
			GP-6592: making the de-noising dependant on exposure time
				for long exposure and temperature
				
				D3 would have to implement

		Dr David and Johaness are working on that atm
		
		What is the timeline: not on 1.4.
		
		
	
	Focus row interpolation algorithm
		improvement from waynes algorithm
		Still need to analyze latest from wayne and implement it
		Nothing to be done for D3 until end of september.


	PDAF changes
		nothing related
	



	Other
		During exposure, SSD is on.  
		Dimitri mentioned to turn off ssh and fpga during log exposure



Image Path Decussion Meeting Notes

Face detection
	Zeiss has algothirm on their side
	Provies rectangle
	missing: Path to app and back for rectangles. Using grids?
	Thomas needs to provide user selected rectangle.
		Jeffrey already defines API, waiting for Thomas
	Hard to continue without Thomas's changes

	Need to tune face detector in Qualcomm

Dark frame capture time
	Looking into scaled dark frame subtract (Johannas)
	There are artifacts, so isn't guarenteed
	Pending Zeiss investigation
	Likely not in 1.4. longer term investigation while waiting for service.

Temperature change during capture
	Due to SSD power?
	Imager power?
	FPGA power?
	App could not turn it on during long exposures.

GP-6592 Make noise cleanning dependent on exposure time and temperature, instead of just ISO.
	Zeiss will define
	Perhaps in 1.4

Raw capture longer than 30 seconds
	"Simple" change from CL.
	There is a bug.

Focus row interpolation algorithm (improve from Wayne older method)
	Zeiss (Johannes) looking into 4k performance
	Bad in some situations, not clear if it improves in other situations.
	On hold because people are working on other things.
	Not like for 1.4

PDAF
	Contrast stastics are already there

XMC
	Waiting on Ralf with more issues.
	We'll share results with other lens related issues
	Plan meeting on Tuesday 9:30?





Burst break down discussion
	
	
aws project
	ti gavve code that read image from a webcam
	display on the screen

	we get a pointer to an image and to an overlay on the screen
	we pass data to neural network and display box on the screen

	v4l2 application to read from webcam
	
	amazon provide the runtime open source
		run the output from sagemaker
		
	option 1:
		tda device tree + uboot and integrate the demo
		
		
		
note
	HJ talks about the result from NTS
		what does it mean, can we do something?
		schedule a meeting with jeff, jim, reece, cyril, to discuss the I failure in usb2
		
		
	Discussion about battery
		Reece to try something today
		
	Axel discussion about resume time from ram.
		possibility to improve kernel
			kernel now: 600-650 ms to resume
		user space:
			1 second to resume
			
		Still looking at the user space.
		Can improve kernel by 300 ms maybe
			He is updating the document with this info
			It is a work in progress.
			
		We should not resume the SSD when we resume the system
		
	There is also the lens homing that prevent the user from taking picture.
		We should look at that later
		Schedule a meeting with Paul to discuss user space
		Paul to look at the lens homing
		
	Axel to continue trying to improve the 300ms in kernel
	Axel to keep profiling user spacing
	
	
	Pat to share new calibration stuff once heater and cooler are done
	Schedule a meeting with Josh and Dimitri to discuss infrastructure.
	
	
	
future
	knowing wich process to follow
	have a process and gates
		this is coming in, and make sure that whatever goes out of the company is also correct
		
	check the board from the vendor before you continue to develop on it.
		some vendor you can expect lots of trouble
		
		
		
nts:
	what could be the impact to the users for each failure
	what would it take to fix the rest (not sure we can estimate this)
	what other tool would we need
	
	
GP-6630
  Ask kevin to double check is patch
  Ask Paul about his increased frame rate


Jason
Test cases are incorect.... some

Pat
Testing bist changes

Reece


Paul
XMC power change with axel
in debugging mode

Kevin
testing

Chuck
Switched from offense to defence.


Friday Saturday 25th Daily status meeting with Zeiss




jflash_file="/system/vendor/etc/phoenix/jflash_checksums.txt"
jflash_dir="/dev/block/platform/soc/624000.ufshc/by-name"
bist_data_dir="/data/data/com.d3engineering.selftest/files"



Monday Sept 28 2020
	pat to produce mtbf report
	

	retuned denoising (will create a GP tomorrow)
		don't merge today
		maybe tomorrow

	Josh has the infrastructure finished in azure
	
	Emmanuel tested the wrong build (that pat mistakeling)
	
	GP-6633: Video not replaying right
		Turns out to be something when closing the codec, 100% reproducible in 1.3.1 and never in 1.2.1
		Thomas to come back with the last working version.  Pat will come up with the gerrit commit that introduced this issue.
		
	awesome , do you have some instructions on how they could run their own build to test everything
Josh Watts
The build jobs are exact mirrors: master is already building daily
So same use-case as back when they used to access our Jenkins directly
It just archives locally w/ rules to only keep so many for so long

paul
	working on xmc changes having issues.  more problem then when he starting with
	tau testing issue. imager missaligning like we've seen before not sure what can be done
	
charles moon
	collected tons of data
	still processing the data
	
reece
	no updates
	
pat
	doing tau log analysis
	
kevin
	still testing full functional.  no bug
	
jason
	still testing full functional.  no bug
	
	
Tuesday Sept 29 2020
	Len discussion:
		Should see more info on Thursday from a system level point of view
		Hope by end of wednesday the len will be stable both horizontally and vertically
		
		https://d3engineering.atlassian.net/browse/GP-5864
			Ralf likes the change
			Paul to merge it we should do a release today
			
		Ralf:
			When interpreting the GMR signal there is an offset compensation
			and there is a question from Nitoh wether they can relax their specification
			for the GMR sensor to allow more correction in the offset.
			
		No action needed today.
			Chuck will receive lens in the future to test.
			
		Patrick to run a test of the new xmc on thursday
		
	David Abreu new GP???
		Not on the call, no status
		
	GP-6633
		Klaus is still working on finding when the regression happened
		Issue with missing builds
		
		
	Tau
		Pat should get the same error Seen in Finland
		Pat will restart a new run with the latest master
		
	Fast resume part B
		Lots of issue to work through
		Not faster right now
		Changes the timing that cause severe crashes
		More difficult than we'd hope
		
	OTA version check
		Want to ensure it works flawlessly before merging in 1.3.1
		
	Gallery
		There is light but it is far away.
		More update tomorrow
		
		
	I+ -> Batt-
	I- -> Supply-
	V+ -> Supply+
	V- -> Supply-
	Batt+ -> Supply+
		

	To use with the box:
 	Supply- -> Batt-
    I+ -> Supply+
    V+ -> Supply+
    V- -> Supply-
    Batt+ -> I-

	Add a build thing to make the power scripts
	Add a version to the power scripts


GP-6576 - Hold off on merging in 1.3.1
GP-6535
Send the key to  Dimitry encrypted delta3EchoNovemberGolf
Ask josh about gerrit UI


Long xmc discussion.
	Contact Ralf or Chuck for more details

D3 is having a jenkins build issue at the moment due to the changes related to building in azure.
	We know the cause, we are working on a fix
	
GP-6623 - needs to be done before final release
	Should have a new app ready for tomorrow morning
	
MTBF results were good after reverting the patch:
	https://gerrit.d3engineering.com/#/c/25283/
	We will keep this out of 1.3.1  It was an slight optimization change, not having it will have no impact on the user's experience
	

D3 to produce 2-3 more box for power measurement
D3 to finish the cleaning of the power scripts


tt = dict(map(lambda elem: (elem.split(": ")[0], float(elem.split(": ")[1])), filter(lambda s: not s.startswith("I:") and not s.startswith("D:") and not s.startswith("W:") and not s.startswith("E:") and not s.startswith("Top ") and not s.startswith("Bottom ") and not s.startswith("T:"), t)))


Still missing in 1.3.1 - will be finalized on monday
e-label (regulatory stuff)
manual



pyjflash to flash 1.0.8 on a fuse camera.  == no good
rtc clock changes in master would need to be in 1.4.0 == was merged in 1.3.1









GP-6576 - should not be an issue
	but should we merge https://gerrit.d3engineering.com/25320
	
-> doing 2 build of the same code (lbs1/lbs3)
	20201009_1041 built on lbs1
	??? built on lbs3
	
1.3.0 was built with official java 1.7
1.3.1 on lbs1 is built using jabba openjdk@1.7

-> Rerun the test with the october 1 build
	If this doesn't fail WTF
-> Rerun the test with the october 5th
	If this doesn't fail (previous run was bad)
	
We need to know if the test results of Tau are consistents given the same version.

-> Add to the build script creation of a manifest with the software version used to build the firmware

-> Was there any changes in any of NEDevices background java daemon...
-> Any rogue background??? That appeard in 1.3.1?


GP-6531
kevin ssd went bad (C 120/broken shutter)
pat ssd went bad (C2....)
other tau camera is starting to go bad








